docs/building-spark.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: Building Spark
redirect_from: "building-with-maven.html"
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scraped).
{:toc}

# Building Apache Spark

## Apache Maven

The Maven-based build is the build of reference for Apache Spark.
Building Spark using Maven requires Maven 3.3.9 or newer and Java 8+.
Note that support for Java 7 was removed as of Spark 2.2.0.

### Setting up Maven's Memory Usage

You'll need to configure Maven to use more memory than usual by setting `MAVEN_OPTS`:

    export MAVEN_OPTS="-Xmx2g -XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=512m"

(The `ReservedCodeCacheSize` setting is optional but recommended.)
If you don't add these parameters to `MAVEN_OPTS`, you may see errors and warnings like the following:

    [INFO] Compiling 203 Scala sources and 9 Java sources to /Users/me/Development/spark/core/target/scala-{{site.SCALA_BINARY_VERSION}}/classes...
    [ERROR] Java heap space -> [Help 1]

You can fix these problems by setting the `MAVEN_OPTS` variable as discussed before.

**Note:**

* If using `build/mvn` with no `MAVEN_OPTS` set, the script will automatically add the above options to the `MAVEN_OPTS` environment variable.
* The `test` phase of the Spark build will automatically add these options to `MAVEN_OPTS`, even when not using `build/mvn`.    

### build/mvn

Spark now comes packaged with a self-contained Maven installation to ease building and deployment of Spark from source located under the `build/` directory. This script will automatically download and setup all necessary build requirements ([Maven](https://maven.apache.org/), [Scala](http://www.scala-lang.org/), and [Zinc](https://github.com/typesafehub/zinc)) locally within the `build/` directory itself. It honors any `mvn` binary if present already, however, will pull down its own copy of Scala and Zinc regardless to ensure proper version requirements are met. `build/mvn` execution acts as a pass through to the `mvn` call allowing easy transition from previous build methods. As an example, one can build a version of Spark as follows:

    ./build/mvn -DskipTests clean package

Other build examples can be found below.

## Building a Runnable Distribution

To create a Spark distribution like those distributed by the
[Spark Downloads](http://spark.apache.org/downloads.html) page, and that is laid out so as
to be runnable, use `./dev/make-distribution.sh` in the project root directory. It can be configured
with Maven profile settings and so on like the direct Maven build. Example:

    ./dev/make-distribution.sh --name custom-spark --pip --r --tgz -Psparkr -Phadoop-2.7 -Phive -Phive-thriftserver -Pmesos -Pyarn

This will build Spark distribution along with Python pip and R packages. For more information on usage, run `./dev/make-distribution.sh --help`

## Specifying the Hadoop Version and Enabling YARN

You can specify the exact version of Hadoop to compile against through the `hadoop.version` property. 
If unset, Spark will build against Hadoop 2.6.X by default.

You can enable the `yarn` profile and optionally set the `yarn.version` property if it is different 
from `hadoop.version`.

Examples:

    # Apache Hadoop 2.6.X
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -DskipTests clean package

    # Apache Hadoop 2.7.X and later
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -Phadoop-2.7 -Dhadoop.version=2.7.3 -DskipTests clean package

## Building With Hive and JDBC Support

To enable Hive integration for Spark SQL along with its JDBC server and CLI,
add the `-Phive` and `Phive-thriftserver` profiles to your existing build options.
By default Spark will build with Hive 1.2.1 bindings.

    # With Hive 1.2.1 support
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -Phive -Phive-thriftserver -DskipTests clean package

## Packaging without Hadoop Dependencies for YARN

The assembly directory produced by `mvn package` will, by default, include all of Spark's
dependencies, including Hadoop and some of its ecosystem projects. On YARN deployments, this
causes multiple versions of these to appear on executor classpaths: the version packaged in
the Spark assembly and the version on each node, included with `yarn.application.classpath`.
The `hadoop-provided` profile builds the assembly without including Hadoop-ecosystem projects,
like ZooKeeper and Hadoop itself.

## Building with Mesos support

    ./build/mvn -Pmesos -DskipTests clean package

## Building for Scala 2.10
To produce a Spark package compiled with Scala 2.10, use the `-Dscala-2.10` property:

    ./dev/change-scala-version.sh 2.10
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -Dscala-2.10 -DskipTests clean package

Note that support for Scala 2.10 is deprecated as of Spark 2.1.0 and may be removed in Spark 2.2.0.

## Building submodules individually

It's possible to build Spark sub-modules using the `mvn -pl` option.

For instance, you can build the Spark Streaming module using:

    ./build/mvn -pl :spark-streaming_2.11 clean install

where `spark-streaming_2.11` is the `artifactId` as defined in `streaming/pom.xml` file.

## Continuous Compilation

We use the scala-maven-plugin which supports incremental and continuous compilation. E.g.

    ./build/mvn scala:cc

should run continuous compilation (i.e. wait for changes). However, this has not been tested
extensively. A couple of gotchas to note:

* it only scans the paths `src/main` and `src/test` (see
[docs](http://davidb.github.io/scala-maven-plugin/example_cc.html)), so it will only work
from within certain submodules that have that structure.

* you'll typically need to run `mvn install` from the project root for compilation within
specific submodules to work; this is because submodules that depend on other submodules do so via
the `spark-parent` module).

Thus, the full flow for running continuous-compilation of the `core` submodule may look more like:

    $ ./build/mvn install
    $ cd core
    $ ../build/mvn scala:cc

## Building with SBT

Maven is the official build tool recommended for packaging Spark, and is the *build of reference*.
But SBT is supported for day-to-day development since it can provide much faster iterative
compilation. More advanced developers may wish to use SBT.

The SBT build is derived from the Maven POM files, and so the same Maven profiles and variables
can be set to control the SBT build. For example:

    ./build/sbt package

To avoid the overhead of launching sbt each time you need to re-compile, you can launch sbt
in interactive mode by running `build/sbt`, and then run all build commands at the command
prompt.

## Speeding up Compilation

Developers who compile Spark frequently may want to speed up compilation; e.g., by using Zinc
(for developers who build with Maven) or by avoiding re-compilation of the assembly JAR (for
developers who build with SBT).  For more information about how to do this, refer to the
[Useful Developer Tools page](http://spark.apache.org/developer-tools.html#reducing-build-times).

## Encrypted Filesystems

When building on an encrypted filesystem (if your home directory is encrypted, for example), then the Spark build might fail with a "Filename too long" error. As a workaround, add the following in the configuration args of the `scala-maven-plugin` in the project `pom.xml`:

    <arg>-Xmax-classfile-name</arg>
    <arg>128</arg>

and in `project/SparkBuild.scala` add:

    scalacOptions in Compile ++= Seq("-Xmax-classfile-name", "128"),

to the `sharedSettings` val. See also [this PR](https://github.com/apache/spark/pull/2883/files) if you are unsure of where to add these lines.

## IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse

For help in setting up IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse for Spark development, and troubleshooting, refer to the
[Useful Developer Tools page](http://spark.apache.org/developer-tools.html).


# Running Tests

Tests are run by default via the [ScalaTest Maven plugin](http://www.scalatest.org/user_guide/using_the_scalatest_maven_plugin).
Note that tests should not be run as root or an admin user.

The following is an example of a command to run the tests:

    ./build/mvn test

## Testing with SBT

The following is an example of a command to run the tests:

    ./build/sbt test

## Running Individual Tests

For information about how to run individual tests, refer to the
[Useful Developer Tools page](http://spark.apache.org/developer-tools.html#running-individual-tests).

## PySpark pip installable

If you are building Spark for use in a Python environment and you wish to pip install it, you will first need to build the Spark JARs as described above. Then you can construct an sdist package suitable for setup.py and pip installable package.

    cd python; python setup.py sdist

**Note:** Due to packaging requirements you can not directly pip install from the Python directory, rather you must first build the sdist package as described above.

Alternatively, you can also run make-distribution with the --pip option.

## PySpark Tests with Maven

If you are building PySpark and wish to run the PySpark tests you will need to build Spark with Hive support.

    ./build/mvn -DskipTests clean package -Phive
    ./python/run-tests

The run-tests script also can be limited to a specific Python version or a specific module

    ./python/run-tests --python-executables=python --modules=pyspark-sql

**Note:** You can also run Python tests with an sbt build, provided you build Spark with Hive support.

## Running R Tests

To run the SparkR tests you will need to install the [knitr](https://cran.r-project.org/package=knitr), [rmarkdown](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rmarkdown), [testthat](https://cran.r-project.org/package=testthat), [e1071](https://cran.r-project.org/package=e1071) and [survival](https://cran.r-project.org/package=survival) packages first:

    R -e "install.packages(c('knitr', 'rmarkdown', 'testthat', 'e1071', 'survival'), repos='http://cran.us.r-project.org')"

You can run just the SparkR tests using the command:

    ./R/run-tests.sh

## Running Docker-based Integration Test Suites

In order to run Docker integration tests, you have to install the `docker` engine on your box.
The instructions for installation can be found at [the Docker site](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/).
Once installed, the `docker` service needs to be started, if not already running.
On Linux, this can be done by `sudo service docker start`.

    ./build/mvn install -DskipTests
    ./build/mvn test -Pdocker-integration-tests -pl :spark-docker-integration-tests_2.11

or

    ./build/sbt docker-integration-tests/test

Commit message:

[SPARK-21893][BUILD][STREAMING][WIP] Put Kafka 0.8 behind a profile
Put Kafka 0.8 support behind a kafka-0-8 profile.

Existing tests, but, until PR builder and Jenkins configs are updated the effect here is to not build or test Kafka 0.8 support at all.

Author: Sean Owen <sowen@cloudera.com>

Closes #19134 from srowen/SPARK-21893.

(cherry picked from commit 4fbf748bf85b18f32a2cd32b1b1881d24360626e)

Cloudera ID: CDH-64027

Change-Id: I2fd3834eacc1b96d55c43f7de14714f3db3556d4

docs/building-spark.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: Building Spark
redirect_from: "building-with-maven.html"
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scraped).
{:toc}

# Building Apache Spark

## Apache Maven

The Maven-based build is the build of reference for Apache Spark.
Building Spark using Maven requires Maven 3.3.9 or newer and Java 8+.
Note that support for Java 7 was removed as of Spark 2.2.0.

### Setting up Maven's Memory Usage

You'll need to configure Maven to use more memory than usual by setting `MAVEN_OPTS`:

    export MAVEN_OPTS="-Xmx2g -XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=512m"

(The `ReservedCodeCacheSize` setting is optional but recommended.)
If you don't add these parameters to `MAVEN_OPTS`, you may see errors and warnings like the following:

    [INFO] Compiling 203 Scala sources and 9 Java sources to /Users/me/Development/spark/core/target/scala-{{site.SCALA_BINARY_VERSION}}/classes...
    [ERROR] Java heap space -> [Help 1]

You can fix these problems by setting the `MAVEN_OPTS` variable as discussed before.

**Note:**

* If using `build/mvn` with no `MAVEN_OPTS` set, the script will automatically add the above options to the `MAVEN_OPTS` environment variable.
* The `test` phase of the Spark build will automatically add these options to `MAVEN_OPTS`, even when not using `build/mvn`.    

### build/mvn

Spark now comes packaged with a self-contained Maven installation to ease building and deployment of Spark from source located under the `build/` directory. This script will automatically download and setup all necessary build requirements ([Maven](https://maven.apache.org/), [Scala](http://www.scala-lang.org/), and [Zinc](https://github.com/typesafehub/zinc)) locally within the `build/` directory itself. It honors any `mvn` binary if present already, however, will pull down its own copy of Scala and Zinc regardless to ensure proper version requirements are met. `build/mvn` execution acts as a pass through to the `mvn` call allowing easy transition from previous build methods. As an example, one can build a version of Spark as follows:

    ./build/mvn -DskipTests clean package

Other build examples can be found below.

## Building a Runnable Distribution

To create a Spark distribution like those distributed by the
[Spark Downloads](http://spark.apache.org/downloads.html) page, and that is laid out so as
to be runnable, use `./dev/make-distribution.sh` in the project root directory. It can be configured
with Maven profile settings and so on like the direct Maven build. Example:

    ./dev/make-distribution.sh --name custom-spark --pip --r --tgz -Psparkr -Phadoop-2.7 -Phive -Phive-thriftserver -Pmesos -Pyarn

This will build Spark distribution along with Python pip and R packages. For more information on usage, run `./dev/make-distribution.sh --help`

## Specifying the Hadoop Version and Enabling YARN

You can specify the exact version of Hadoop to compile against through the `hadoop.version` property. 
If unset, Spark will build against Hadoop 2.6.X by default.

You can enable the `yarn` profile and optionally set the `yarn.version` property if it is different 
from `hadoop.version`.

Examples:

    # Apache Hadoop 2.6.X
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -DskipTests clean package

    # Apache Hadoop 2.7.X and later
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -Phadoop-2.7 -Dhadoop.version=2.7.3 -DskipTests clean package

## Building With Hive and JDBC Support

To enable Hive integration for Spark SQL along with its JDBC server and CLI,
add the `-Phive` and `Phive-thriftserver` profiles to your existing build options.
By default Spark will build with Hive 1.2.1 bindings.

    # With Hive 1.2.1 support
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -Phive -Phive-thriftserver -DskipTests clean package

## Packaging without Hadoop Dependencies for YARN

The assembly directory produced by `mvn package` will, by default, include all of Spark's
dependencies, including Hadoop and some of its ecosystem projects. On YARN deployments, this
causes multiple versions of these to appear on executor classpaths: the version packaged in
the Spark assembly and the version on each node, included with `yarn.application.classpath`.
The `hadoop-provided` profile builds the assembly without including Hadoop-ecosystem projects,
like ZooKeeper and Hadoop itself.

## Building with Mesos support

    ./build/mvn -Pmesos -DskipTests clean package
    
## Building with Kafka 0.8 support

Kafka 0.8 support must be explicitly enabled with the `kafka-0-8` profile.
Note: Kafka 0.8 support is deprecated as of Spark 2.3.0.

    ./build/mvn -Pkafka-0-8 -DskipTests clean package

Kafka 0.10 support is still automatically built.

## Building for Scala 2.10
To produce a Spark package compiled with Scala 2.10, use the `-Dscala-2.10` property:

    ./dev/change-scala-version.sh 2.10
    ./build/mvn -Pyarn -Dscala-2.10 -DskipTests clean package

Note that support for Scala 2.10 is deprecated as of Spark 2.1.0 and may be removed in Spark 2.2.0.

## Building submodules individually

It's possible to build Spark sub-modules using the `mvn -pl` option.

For instance, you can build the Spark Streaming module using:

    ./build/mvn -pl :spark-streaming_2.11 clean install

where `spark-streaming_2.11` is the `artifactId` as defined in `streaming/pom.xml` file.

## Continuous Compilation

We use the scala-maven-plugin which supports incremental and continuous compilation. E.g.

    ./build/mvn scala:cc

should run continuous compilation (i.e. wait for changes). However, this has not been tested
extensively. A couple of gotchas to note:

* it only scans the paths `src/main` and `src/test` (see
[docs](http://davidb.github.io/scala-maven-plugin/example_cc.html)), so it will only work
from within certain submodules that have that structure.

* you'll typically need to run `mvn install` from the project root for compilation within
specific submodules to work; this is because submodules that depend on other submodules do so via
the `spark-parent` module).

Thus, the full flow for running continuous-compilation of the `core` submodule may look more like:

    $ ./build/mvn install
    $ cd core
    $ ../build/mvn scala:cc

## Building with SBT

Maven is the official build tool recommended for packaging Spark, and is the *build of reference*.
But SBT is supported for day-to-day development since it can provide much faster iterative
compilation. More advanced developers may wish to use SBT.

The SBT build is derived from the Maven POM files, and so the same Maven profiles and variables
can be set to control the SBT build. For example:

    ./build/sbt package

To avoid the overhead of launching sbt each time you need to re-compile, you can launch sbt
in interactive mode by running `build/sbt`, and then run all build commands at the command
prompt.

## Speeding up Compilation

Developers who compile Spark frequently may want to speed up compilation; e.g., by using Zinc
(for developers who build with Maven) or by avoiding re-compilation of the assembly JAR (for
developers who build with SBT).  For more information about how to do this, refer to the
[Useful Developer Tools page](http://spark.apache.org/developer-tools.html#reducing-build-times).

## Encrypted Filesystems

When building on an encrypted filesystem (if your home directory is encrypted, for example), then the Spark build might fail with a "Filename too long" error. As a workaround, add the following in the configuration args of the `scala-maven-plugin` in the project `pom.xml`:

    <arg>-Xmax-classfile-name</arg>
    <arg>128</arg>

and in `project/SparkBuild.scala` add:

    scalacOptions in Compile ++= Seq("-Xmax-classfile-name", "128"),

to the `sharedSettings` val. See also [this PR](https://github.com/apache/spark/pull/2883/files) if you are unsure of where to add these lines.

## IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse

For help in setting up IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse for Spark development, and troubleshooting, refer to the
[Useful Developer Tools page](http://spark.apache.org/developer-tools.html).


# Running Tests

Tests are run by default via the [ScalaTest Maven plugin](http://www.scalatest.org/user_guide/using_the_scalatest_maven_plugin).
Note that tests should not be run as root or an admin user.

The following is an example of a command to run the tests:

    ./build/mvn test

## Testing with SBT

The following is an example of a command to run the tests:

    ./build/sbt test

## Running Individual Tests

For information about how to run individual tests, refer to the
[Useful Developer Tools page](http://spark.apache.org/developer-tools.html#running-individual-tests).

## PySpark pip installable

If you are building Spark for use in a Python environment and you wish to pip install it, you will first need to build the Spark JARs as described above. Then you can construct an sdist package suitable for setup.py and pip installable package.

    cd python; python setup.py sdist

**Note:** Due to packaging requirements you can not directly pip install from the Python directory, rather you must first build the sdist package as described above.

Alternatively, you can also run make-distribution with the --pip option.

## PySpark Tests with Maven

If you are building PySpark and wish to run the PySpark tests you will need to build Spark with Hive support.

    ./build/mvn -DskipTests clean package -Phive
    ./python/run-tests

The run-tests script also can be limited to a specific Python version or a specific module

    ./python/run-tests --python-executables=python --modules=pyspark-sql

**Note:** You can also run Python tests with an sbt build, provided you build Spark with Hive support.

## Running R Tests

To run the SparkR tests you will need to install the [knitr](https://cran.r-project.org/package=knitr), [rmarkdown](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rmarkdown), [testthat](https://cran.r-project.org/package=testthat), [e1071](https://cran.r-project.org/package=e1071) and [survival](https://cran.r-project.org/package=survival) packages first:

    R -e "install.packages(c('knitr', 'rmarkdown', 'testthat', 'e1071', 'survival'), repos='http://cran.us.r-project.org')"

You can run just the SparkR tests using the command:

    ./R/run-tests.sh

## Running Docker-based Integration Test Suites

In order to run Docker integration tests, you have to install the `docker` engine on your box.
The instructions for installation can be found at [the Docker site](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/).
Once installed, the `docker` service needs to be started, if not already running.
On Linux, this can be done by `sudo service docker start`.

    ./build/mvn install -DskipTests
    ./build/mvn test -Pdocker-integration-tests -pl :spark-docker-integration-tests_2.11

or

    ./build/sbt docker-integration-tests/test
